Hiero annual report (#128)
LF-Decentralized-Trust/governance: tac/project-updates/2025/2025-annual-Hiero.md

---
layout: default
title: 2025 Annual Review Hiero
parent: 2025
grand_parent: Project Updates
---

## Project Health

> The LFX Insights page of Hiero can be found [here](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/foundation/lf-decentralized-trust/overview/github?project=hiero)

Author: The LFX Insights page must be linked in the "Project Health" section. That is defined in the [template](https://github.com/LF-Decentralized-Trust/governance/blob/main/tac/project-updates/0000-annual-review-template.md)

This includes new contributors (and even committers and maintainers) as you can see as example in the contributor list of https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-solo-action that is a community driven project which already attracting new contributors from India and Africa.
Another positive example for contributions is the YouTube tutorial series for our Python SDK that has been created by a community member: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL6uVtTx-oqY8V-HBfenONJrsA0Z8xJymX

## Project Adoption

<mark>_What do you know about adoption, and how has this changed since your last review or since being accepted into LF Decentralized Trust? If you can list companies that are adopters of your project, please do so. Feel free to link to an existing ADOPTERS file if appropriate._
</mark>

## Goals

### Performance Against Prior Goals

Our initial main goal was to move all Hedera repositories to Hiero.
While we are mostly done with that topic we already started to refactor the code to a more vendor neutral / unbranded state.
Here we are currently concentrating on the SDKs and discuss workflows, roadmaps, and patterns.

> Information and current state on the transition from Hedera can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md).

Reviewer: Do we also want to mention the other transition tracker for all the community driven project transition?

Information about our work on making the SDKs vendor neutral can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/blog/2025-03-17-sdk-workflows.md).

With all that work we plan to have first releases of all projects in near future.
Next to that we plan a major release that will contain all the work regarding moving the code to a more vendor neutral project.

Another main goal was and still is the onboarding of community projects from the Hiero ecosystem.
We already moved 3 community projects to Hiero and a new proposal is already in the pipeline.
Information about the onboarding of new projects can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md).

> 

Reviewer: Added in my next patch

---
layout: default
title: 2025 Annual Review Hiero
parent: 2025
grand_parent: Project Updates
---

## Project Health

The LFX Insights page of Hiero can be found [here](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/foundation/lf-decentralized-trust/overview/github?project=hiero)

The Hiero project began in September 2024 and has been growing ever since.
Along with the transition of all Hedera repositories that are needed to run a network, we added  other community driven repositories.
While developing those projects, we were able to onboard new contributors to Hiero and new maintainers coming from the community.

Next to transitioning the repositories, we are setting up an open governance model for the project.

> We kickstarted several public meetings that run on a weekly basis where we discuss the project and it's plans for the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We kickstarted several public meetings that run on a weekly basis where we discuss the project and its plans for the future.
```

Information and current state on the transition from Hedera can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/transition.md).
Information about our work on making the SDKs vendor neutral can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/blog/2025-03-17-sdk-workflows.md).

With all of this work in progress, we plan to release the initial minor versions of all projects in the near future.
Next, we plan a major release that will contain all the work from moving the code to a more vendor neutral release.

Another main goal is the onboarding of community projects from the Hiero ecosystem.
At the moment, we moved 3 community projects to Hiero and a new proposal is in the pipeline.
Information about the onboarding of new projects can be found [here](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero/blob/main/community-transition.md).

On the project's management front, the team is focusing on evaluating and analyzing key project health metrics that track our progress in fostering a thriving and diverse community.
These metrics enable us to assess the project's performance by measuring contributions, code velocity, and issue response and resolution times.

> Our metrics report can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vRxg-3wU-eg0EWEhAu9SRab_sXwJBy5YDQqoeV6BLq0FnVnoO4V41kPYEDYJovtns6tpq9gkaSaSzlO/pub).

Reviewer 2: Are the LFX Insights metrics not enough? Is there something that the Heiro community would like to see added to LFX Insights? Should we have a sync with the LFX Insights team?

> ### Next Year's Goals

Reviewer 2: Are there any goals needed to meeting the requirements set out by the LFDT TAC? Examples: scorecard, common repository structure, etc.

Reviewer: Yes.. i can add the information of what are we working on to achieve these goals

Hiero is a rapidly growing project that is gaining significant traction. We anticipate continued growth in our community's diversity, enabling the adoption of more community-driven components.

> The project is expected to see a considerable growth in the number of maintainers, committers, and members of the TSC.

Reviewer 2: Are there specific goals that you have other than growth? How do you hope to achieve this goal?

Reviewer: Added more specifics in the next patch

Our vendor-neutral releases will provide the project with enhanced flexibility and adaptability, supporting its long-term success.

> As a project, we expect Hiero to continue advancing in performance, scalability, and, most importantly, trust.

Reviewer 2: Do you have specific goals related to performance, scalability, and trust?

Reviewer: Added in my next patch

> We remain committed to continue growing our community engagement by encouraging contributions to support both our current and upcoming SDKs, as well as helping to build a more comprehensive TCK with richer test coverage to ensure robust end-to-end validation.

Reviewer 2: What does TCK mean?

Reviewer: It refers to a Technology Compatibility Kit which is a set of tools used to verify the implementation in our SDKs. I can add better wording to this

Additionally, we are focused on achieving faster finality, lower latency, and continuously increasing capacity to support larger transactions.

### Help Required

As outlined in the following section, we would like to initiate a discussion with the TAC regarding the transition of the project to the graduated state.

> We would greatly appreciate any feedback or guidance on this process.

Reviewer 2: Besides the incubation exit criteria, also take a look at the project lifecycle governance document that adds information on additional expectations that might be needed. Typically, the process would be to create a PR under the project-proposals repo that outlines the request to move to graduated and how the project meets the criteria for graduation.

Reviewer: Thank you Tracy, I think that is this document?
https://lf-decentralized-trust.github.io/governance/governing-documents/project-lifecycle.html
I will double check

## Project Lifecycle Status Recommendation

The project continues to work towards the goals set by the TAC in order for the project to move to Graduated state.

- **Legal Criteria** - The project has established a dedicated security team tasked with monitoring the latest security reports and implementing OpenSSF best practices, with the goal of achieving a score of 10.

> - **Diversity Criteria** - As we continue to aquire new contribuitors, we are hoping that their contributions continue to be meaninful enough to be elected as Committers and Maintainers. The team is offering guidance on the project development front and promoting active coolaboration in order to qualify as Committers or Maintainers of the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Diversity Criteria** - As we continue to aquire new contributors, we are hoping that their contributions continue to be meaningful enough to be elected as Committers and Maintainers. The team is offering guidance on the project development front and promoting active collaboration in order to qualify as Committers or Maintainers of the project.
```
